# Abstract

Now a days most projects need estimation. The project & developers team have to estimate both the budget and cost of the projects which these have direct impact on how to develop and estimation process. Mostly the project managers estimate the cost & budget of projects based on past expe- rience which maybe a wrong estimation, so in this cause having a system to estimate the time and budgets based on system features will help the devel- opers and project managers for having a good team and project management.
Mostly the estimation is based on a system features. If the features of a system is more so it will take more time and more budgets, in addition the project will need more resources may be human, technology and so on. lets suppose we are going to develop a system with 30 features such as (user main page, access level, graph charts, crud, administrator panel .). the team should select one feature as base feature which the selected feature should be the simplest with low rating number. For example we got the user main page as a base feature with 8 rating. So we will rate the other features with compare of base features (user main page [8 rating]). For example we give 13 for user main page because it is a difficult then user main page or we give the access level 5 because it is so easy them user main page. At the end we will calculate all the rating points then the result should be divided by numbers of points that we can complete in one week. So we will find the project will take how many weeks or months.
